Starring Eddie Redmayne and Felicity Jones, 'The Theory of Everything' is a brilliantly directed
masterpiece on the extraordinary real-life story of one of the world's greatest minds, the renowned and
celebrated astrophysicist Stephen Hawking. The movie is a beautiful narrative of Stephen Hawking's pure
genius and complex life. He was a lively and spirited person who looked at the world through his entirely
new perspective. His humor, his ideas, his thoughts, his multi-dimensional personality, and social
awkwardness have been portrayed gracefully and exquisitely in this movie.
The movie's director James Marsh has done a marvelous job in presenting the story of Hawking to the
audiences through his fine directing skills. The film skillfully depicts the life of Stephan Hawking, whose
every waking moment was occupied by his pursuit to look for an equation that explains everything. For a
physicist like Hawking, who believed time has a beginning and an end, I think it was profound to showcase
his biography linearly. Hawking's movements, motions, and gestures like cycling, getting out of bed have
been focused on and captured cleverly by James Marsh in the first half of the movie to show the hard life
in contrast that patients with ALS have to suffer. The film spans all the breakpoints of his life, illness,
doctorate, and groundbreaking work 'A Brief History Of Time.' which propelled him into immortal fame.
The movie sequences before the protagonist is detected with the motor neuron disease reflect his love for
his subject, his humble way of living, and enjoying his life. After the turn of events, the audience is at a
loss of words and sympathizes with all the people battling ALS worldwide, and achieving this is a mark
of brilliance.
It's the small details that captivate the audience, and this film lifts the lids of all expectations. Introducing
Stephen as an atheist, as a cosmologist who worships the single equation that unifies the forces of the
universe and is ignorant of C of E. We see Stephen picking up a pen at Professor Sciama's office, and how
the director chooses to recreate this very moment towards the end to show how his body has limited his
movements is mind-boggling.
Eddie Redmayne’s outstanding performance
When faces you've seen countless times become strange again; when you're afraid to as much as blink lest
you miss a single moment, that's when you know you're witnessing an extraordinary performance. And
Eddie Redmayne's portrayal of Stephen Hawking is one such splendid performance.
Eddie's love and passion for his art are commendable, given he prepared for six months for this role and
studied Stephen Hawking's expression and the life of ALS patients in so much detail. His respect for
Hawking and sympathy for patients who face similar hardships are evident in his pursuit to bring justice
to the role of the legend he was playing. The fact that he practiced sitting like Hawking so much that he
bent his spine reflects his devotion to his art. This excruciatingly demanding physical performance
manages to be really expressive.
Eddie rises to the challenge of portraying a gradual physical deterioration. His impression of Stephen
Hawking is so intricate and detailed that Hawking once exclaimed he thought he was looking at him
performing.

The Emphasis on Human Relationships
The movie does an incredible job in portraying the human relationships that Stephen Hawking was a part
of. The life of Stephen Hawking shows the importance of each relationship and the pivotal role they play
in everyone's lives. It's these relations that gave Hawking the power to fight his degenerative disease and
continue to work in the field of physics. To honor Professor Hawking and the 4 forces that make up the
universe, let's look at the 4 central relationships that adorned his life.

The movie begins by exploring the friends Stephen had at the University of Cambridge, and this is the
first relation we come across. This relationship has been cherished in the whole film. Stephen's friends
have been a constant support to him and stood beside him no matter the circumstances. His friends loved
him for his inner personality, attitude to life, humble living, and not his outer looks. Brian, a fierce friend
of Hawking, keeps him motivated, and his get-togethers with him show how he persistently tried to add
fun and frivolity to Stephen's complex life. From cycling in the first shot to the session he addressed at
the end, this relation was constantly felt throughout the movie. Brian's pride in knowing a gifted person
like Hawking is clearly evident throughout, be it the moment he solves 9/10 impossible questions or while
he attends Stephen's talk towards the end. Brian's refusal to accept his friend's condition in his dorm room
and difficulty comprehending the depressing truth brings forward the amiable, strong bond of friendship
Hawking had with him.

For Stephen, his teachers and professors developed in him the enthusiasm and have been the source of his
interest in the field of astrophysics. They are the constant guiding light to Stephen even when his health
puts him under many restrictions. From taking Stephen to professor Penrose's talk to organizing a session
for him to explain his theory, Dennis Sciama, played by David Thewlis, was the ideal teacher everyone
wants in their lives. He identified the plethora of talent in Stephen and channeled his energy and mind
towards picking the right subject for his Ph.D.
Being a Dual Degree student, I was really motivated by Sciama's words - "One of the great rewards of this
job is one never knows from where the next great leap forwards is going to come, or from whom." These
words inspired Stephen and continue to inspire students all around the globe. This marks the brilliance of
a teacher whose words continue to incite generations.
